So the next thing I'd like to
do is move on to chapter 10.
And in chapter 10, we are going to
code the same exact grid system
that we coded with Flexbox, now,
we're gonna code this with Grid.
And we're gonna start by just
doing the desktop version of
our layout exactly as we did with Flexbox.
So if you take a look at your HTML,
this is exactly the same
example we had yesterday.
We have a div with a class of wrapper
going all the way around things here.
All right, so I'm just gonna fold
up these figures here just so
you can see what's going on.
So notice that I have a class of
wrapper around the whole thing and
then I just have a series of figures here.
Now, with Flexbox what we had to do was
we had to put a div with a class of row
around all of these groups of figures,
but with Grid, we don't need to do that.
With grid, we can control all of
this centrally with our CSS and
we can do it very, very quickly.
It's really a very nice system.
So, just like we did with Flexbox,
we're gonna have our first row is
gonna have four separate boxes in it.
Our second row will have two
boxes spanning two columns.
Our third row has got the three plus one.
Our fourth row is just one giant box.
And our fifth row is the one
to one configuration.
So let's write some desktop styles for
that.
So we'll start with our wrapper, Because
that's the parent to all of these figures.
And so
this is where we place our display: grid.
That's how it starts always.
Now, what I would like to do is I'd like
to have four columns on this page and
I'd like them to all be the same width.
Now, we could write out something
like this grid-template-columns.
And we could say something like 25%,
25%, 25%, 25%.
That would be absolutely legitimate and
then as you see here,
it displays very nicely on the web page.
But there are more efficient
ways to write this code.
So let's go through other
ways of writing this syntax.
So with the usual caveat,
as you were writing your CSS the best
way to write it is the way
that you understand it.
So you don't have to leverage
all of the shortcuts and
all of the additional syntax and
all the rest of it.
If you don't understand your own code,
there are problems.
So I'm showing you a whole bunch of
different ways to write exactly the same
thing.
Here we're going to do something
slightly different and
something that you'll see
a lot in other people's code.
For a Grid template columns,
say repeat(4, and then this, 1fr).
1fr is a unique unit to Grid,
you cannot use fr anywhere else in CSS,
it's only for Grid and
fr stands for fraction.
So in other words we're telling Grid,
I would like for
you to divide the screen
into four equal fractions.
So it figures out that that's about
25% of the width of the screen and
it sets it up just like this.
And rather than writing out those
individually we're using this
repeat notation.
You could also write
this as 1fr 1fr 1fr 1fr,
that's perfectly legit also.
And you may have reasons for doing that
if this is more understandable to you.
But normally you'll see
this written as repeat(4,
in other words 4 of these,
1fr that's the width for each one of them.
And then we're going to have
our grid-template-rows,
we can just set that to auto.
However many rows you need, have fun.
Just go ahead and
set it up and make it happen.
That's what we're telling Grid to do here,
so
we don't have to be all
that specific all the time.
And we can also say our gap is 4%.
So this is working off the similar kind of
math that we had with Flexbox once again,
where we had a 4% gap across
all of our grid cells.
Well, we've got the same kind of
thing going on here with a 4% gap.
The difference here is that gap in
Grid applies in two dimensions.
So we've got a 4% gap in between
the cells and a 4% gap between the rows.
So not only between the columns,
but between the rows as well.
So by default, it's going to put every one
of these grid items into its own cell and
line them all up really,
really nicely with very, very little code,
very efficient.
So let's go through here and think about
now what we wanna do with our second row.
And I said we have two boxes, each of
those is going to span two columns.
So first of all,
based on what you know so far,
what kind of syntax might we
use to specify how we would
say these two cells should
be spanning two columns?
>> There is a question about the gap
percentages are based on what property?
>> Gap is the property, 4% is the value.
Are you talking about 4% of what?
4% of the screen, well,
4% of the containing element,
in our case, the wrapper is the container,
the wrapper is occupying 100%
of the width of the screen.
So it winds up being effectively 4% of the
viewport width in this particular case.
If your rapper was 50% of the screen,
it would be 4% of that 50%.
>> Yeah, that's what they're asking.
>> Okay, cool.
All right, so we could set up now our
second row here in a very reusable way.
So what I'm going to do here
on my figure in my HTML is
I'm gonna set this up with a class.
And I'm gonna call it span2, why?
Because we're gonna span
across two columns.
And I'm gonna set that up here and
my second figure as well,
a class of span2, okay?
And then we can write the corresponding
CSS very easily, span2.
What would I write here?
grid-column: span 2; boom, that's it.
Really, really very straightforward.
So in a desktop type of layout,
I don't have to do any math.
Remember all the crazy math
we had to do with Flexbox and
making sure that everything
lined up correctly?
We don't have to do any of that with Grid,
Grid does it all for you, it's amazing.
And so we can now just take this style for
span2 and let's set up a couple more.
I'm just gonna paste
that in a couple times.
So I'm gonna set up a class of span3 and
a class of span4,
and I'm gonna tell it to span 3 and
span 4, okay?
Get desktop based layout only.
And now all I have to do is drop the
classes in where I want them to appear.
So here in my row 3 the first
figure I'll say a class of span3.
In row number 4 I have a class of span4.
And in row number number 5, maybe my
first item here would be a class of,
span2.
So notice how much less code we
have now in our grid system.
How much less math we had to write, and
how many less machinations we have to go
through in order to set up this web page.
It's very straight forward.
The HTML is much more streamlined,
we have really streamlined CSS.
We did it in just a handful
of declarations here.
And everything lines up perfectly,
on the page we have exactly the layout
that we're looking for, just like that.